Welcome to part two of the Forum Submission Challenge.
The goal remains to implement form submission, and the first task is to populate our inventory view
with real data, not the static data that it currently has.
And so the first step to do that is to access the model from our handler method.
And as soon as a call is made to slash inventory, we need to populate our model with data.
So we'll say model, dot, add attribute and the attribute will hold a key named items.
And this item's key is going to map to the items array list that holds all of our data.
And so right before it returns the inventory view to the user.
Finally if can access that model data.
And so right here we have a row that's full of headers and every row that follows needs to be generated
by a timely loop.
So here we can say finally for each set that equal to a leaf expression.
As always, we start with a variable expression.
And what that's going to do is grab the items array list from our model.
And if each is going to run through every single item in our items array list.
And for each item that it runs through, it's going to generate a row of data.
The first data cell of each row that gets generated is going to display a text that equals the category
of the current item that's being iterated through.
So we can grab that current item using a variable expression, and then we'll say item, not category.
This will display the name of the item that's currently being iterated through.
This will display the price.
This will display the belief it's the discount.
And this will display the date item.
Date date.
And this will display nothing.
It's just the button.
All right.
Think we have everything we need to run our application?
It's already running.
Or I should say, to test our application.
So I'll submit a coach worth 300 bucks.
50, 99.
We'll say May 5th.
Beautiful.
That worked out really well.
Finally generates a row of data.
Each cell in this row displays a text that corresponds to the field value of the item object that we
submitted.
And everything looks pretty good for the moment, except for the order dates, because what the text
is doing is displaying the two string representation of a data object, and the two string representation
of a data object returns a string that's been formatted in a very detailed manner, nothing very user
friendly.
So what we have to do is task two tells us to add another method in our project class and then using
the same variable expression, fetch this formatted data instead so we can go ahead.
And.
Add this to our pod class.
Simple date format.
And now the point of this exercise is to make you realize that if I were to say item dot format date,
then it would actually look for some type of getter that says get format date, get format date.
And what that's going to do is return a string representation of our date that's been formatted to have
the following pattern year, month and day.
If we.
Well, we would have to go back.
Submit a value.
And as predicted, the variable expression calls the get format date method of our item object.
And what that does is return a formatted version of our date that adheres to a more user friendly format.
Now this is nice and all, but adding this code to the back end doesn't really make much sense.
As mentioned inside of learn the part formatting visual output based on data should be done with fine
leaf and thankfully we have many utility methods at our disposal.
And so what we're going to do is revert this back to being a date.
And since the data that we're working with is a date, well, we need to do is grab a utility method
that applies to dates.
We can find a utility method that suits our purposes by going on to the GitHub repo that has all the
date methods and time leaf.
So let's find something that suits our purposes.
You know what?
There you go.
Format.
Okay, good.
We're making progress.
Let's look for one where we can define a pattern.
Beautiful.
And so now from Leaf, we can execute this utility method and format our date to return a string that
adheres to a specific pattern.
All right.
First things first.
You have to specify the pound sign, followed by what type of data are you applying utility methods
for?
We're going to grab the utility methods for dates, and then you have to specify the method that you're
going to use.
In this case, it's called format.
The first argument is your target in this case, the model data that we're applying format on.
That's going to be your item date.
The second argument is the pattern you want to use to format the date.
That pattern is going to be yea.
Yea.
Yea, yea.
Month, month, day, day.
And remember to enclose string values inside of single quotes.
And now we have to close the following bracket, ending our final leaf expression.
And now this function is going to return a string value that formats our date into a more user friendly
pattern.
Let's try this out.
And it works just like before, except now we don't have to make any changes to our back end, so go
ahead and remove the following.
Beautiful.
Do we have any other tasks?
All right.
Find a utility method for numbers that formats the currencies to have commas.
I really like this exercise because it encourages us to research.
And let's go on.
Numbers.
And we'll try to find something that will format our numbers into a currency.
There must be something.
No.
What?
How about we just control find currency?
Oh, beautiful.
So all you got to say is format currency, and it's going to format your target into a currency.
That target is the model data that we're applying the utility method on.
So here.
We'll say, finally, if text is equal to a utility method, that's going to return a formatted currency
from item price.
So here we'll say numbers.
The method name is format currency.
The only argument that it expects is item price.
And because this is already going to return a currency, we don't need to specify this.
We don't need to specify this either.
Oh, well, we still need to apply our utility method for it to actually return a formatted currency.
All right.
Looks good to me.
Let's try it out.
Uh, we made a change in the back end, and it restarted, so we're going to have to resubmit the data.
And for the sake of seeing some commas, let's make this into $1 billion or however many dollars this
is discount 5 million or whatever number this is, we'll say May 5th.
Submit the item.
Nice.
OC.
Any other tasks.
Visualise the runtime from the get request on the home page to the post request on submit item.
Now because this is clearly optional.
Well, I guess everything is optional, but you don't have to stick around for this breakpoint session.
I'm just going to go ahead and do it.
We'll say.
Run in debug.
I guess we would have to be outside of the HTML view to do a debug session.
And the breakpoints I'm going to apply.
Will be here.
And here.
Okay.
We'll say local host 8080.
The request is intercepted get form handles the request.
The first thing it's going to do is it's going to populate the model with data.
It's going to add a new item object which will essentially serve as our form backing object.
Now our model has two pieces of data.
The item key that maps to an empty item object and a categories key that maps to an array of category
values.
Now just perform just before I should say the form is submitted.
Our dropdown list is going to be populated with four options, one that says choose category and three
options that correspond to our array of category values.
And now as soon as we submit the form.
Just before this happens, before the post request is initiated.
What the forum does is because every single form element is bound to a field and the form backing object,
the option that a user selects its value is going to update the category field of our form backing object.
Every value that the user inputs is going to update a respective field in the form backing object and
upon form submission.
All the data in this object is going to be carried as payload into a post request and if we step through
the runtime.
Upon receiving the post request, a new item object was created and it was updated with data from the
payload.
Here we can see the item object being populated with values from the post request.
This item object is going to be added to the items data stored.
Okay.
And now we have an array list with values.
Then the user is redirected to make a get request on slash inventory.
So it follows that the get inventory handler method will get called.
It's going to add our item's array list to the model.
Now our model has data.
It has an items key that maps to an array list with one value and right before it returns the inventory
view.
It's going to generate as many rows, as many table rows as there are elements in this array list.
There is only one element, so it's going to generate one row such that each data cell displays a value
that corresponds to the item that was used to generate it.
If you press next.
Beautiful.